>> Sarah: Yeah, I wanna take a second to
thank Frontend Masters for having me here.
Like Mark said, I gave a course
here a couple years ago, and
I've since been doing a lot
of workshops and stuff.
I also saw Mark give
a SVG talk a few years
before I gave my SVG animation workshop.
It was super awesome.
Okay, so without further ado,
let's dive into Vue.js.
My name is Sarah Drasner,
this is a photo of me as a child and
also my relationship with authority.
I'm a consultant,
which does not mean that I'm unemployed.
I work for
companies like Salesforce and IBM and
Microsoft and I feel really grateful
that I get those kinds of opportunities.
If you need to find me on Twitter
to ask questions or anything,
that's my Twitter handle.
So we're all here to learn Vue.js.
Why should we learn Vue.js?
What is all the hype about?
It's kind of blowing up lately and
I think that there are some things that
are really, really cool about this
framework that make it really unique.
And we're gonna kind of dispel
some myths about it as well.
It's very declarative.
I really like that about it.
It's super legible because it's so
declarative.
When you are working with it,
as a consultant,
I have to jump into these code bases
that I don't have a lot of context for.
And when I jump in to a Vue project,
I know where things are right away.
I can automatically look at
something like a function, and
know whether it's using methods,
computed value, or a watcher, and
kind of understand what that might
be doing immediately off the bat.
It's really, really nice to be able
to just jump into a project and
see what you need to see
in order to get working.
It's easy to maintain because it's so
legible.
When you haven't worked on a project for
a little while and
then you come back, you actually
understand where everything might be.
It's nice and self-documenting that way.
It's really powerful.
I think a lot of times when
something is simple and
easy to use, we think that it
doesn't have a lot of horsepower.
That's not true of Vue.
Vue actually is incredibly feature rich,
but it also is simple and
I think that that's a really
dynamic composition.
It's a collection of the best of the best.
You might've just started hearing about it
after you've heard about things like React
and after you've heard
about things like Angular,
because it came after all of those things.
And really what Evan, who's the author
of Vue, did was he took his favorite
parts of all of the frameworks that you
guys have mentioned earlier today and
he kind of took them and
kind of collected them into one place.
Now you'd think something that takes so
many disparate ideas would be
kind of like a mess or something.
But the most amazing part about it is,
he did so in an elegant manner.
You don't feel like it's just a bunch
of jumbly things smashed together.
You actually feel like you just have
this really feature rich ecosystem.
I think that the coolest thing about
the web today is that we are all learning
from each other.
And that when frameworks compete, we kind
of get the best of everything, right?
Vue borrows from React,
React borrows from Vue, and
then both are better because of that.
So that's really, really nice.
This is one of the biggest
reasons I use Vue.
It gives me what I want when I need it and
then it gets out of my way.
There's a great quote by Kathy Sierra,
she is like a UX expert.
And you might have heard of
the thing don't make me think, but
she says don't make me think
about the wrong thing.
I think that that's a really good phrase
for how I feel when I'm using Vue.
I feel like all of the stuff that I need
obstructed away from me that feels like
I've already done it a million times,
why should I have to keep reinventing
the wheel here, is obstructed away.
And everything that I need and if I
need to dip down into some of the custom
properties, custom directives,
I can do so.
That's really, really great.
So it's a way to be really productive.
I feel very, very productive in Vue.
I feel like I'm almost constantly
in that great flow state that makes
being a developer so exciting.
Goodness gracious, it's freaking fun.
[LAUGH] I love web development.
I think Vue actually gives me
this resurgence of excitement
of working on the web again and
that is just immeasurable.
I put this in here because I think,
a lot of times,
when we're building out sites, we end up
doing the same things over and over again.
And you even can see a developer over
there implementing the same thing you did
last week.
Vue basically looks at
all of those things,
those kind of common use cases and
keeps you from yak shaving.
It keeps you from having to
reimplement the stuff that
you're probably going to
be doing again and again.
We're not going to talk
about mobile today,
that's not why the iPhone
is on the screen.
The reason the iPhone is
on the screen is because
I get the same feeling using
Vue as I do the iPhone.
The iPhone is a sophisticated
piece of machinery and
I know some of the best engineers
in the world work on it.
But when use it, I don't feel
like I'm being talked down to.
I don't feel like it's getting
in my way of using it.
I feel like I have a lot of strength and
power in that device.
And I still can navigate it very easily,
so
that's a kind of metaphor
that I'm using here.
We're gonna do a quick comparison of
frameworks because people might want some
of that but I'm also gonna link off to
a page that has a ton of resources for
that if you're more
interested in that material.
It has a virtual DOM,
just like React, if you're used
to those kind of core premises.
That's the same kind of idea.
It has reactive components.
Reactivity, we're gonna dive
into in one of the sections and
I'm gonna talk about what
it means to be reactive.
You might have heard this kind of
buzzword in programming lately,
in RXJX, Angular is reactive as well.
But Angular is an MVC view, uses the View
layer only, kind of similar to React.
So it has props and
a redux-like store, similar to React.
And the last part of this
workshop today we're going to
dig into Vuex which is like
the redux counterpart in Vue.
It has conditional rendering and
services similar to Angular.
When we're working on the first
section and the directives if you've
come from an Angular background you're
gonna feel very, very, very much at home.
It's inspired by Polymer because it kind
of emphasizes simplicity and performance.
So it has a similar development style.
It's called a progressive framework
because we're working with what you
are writing is like html and styles
in JavaScript composed in tandem and
eventually were gonna be working
with them in single file templates.
This does not mean that that's
the only way to work with it.
If you're more comfortable with something
like JSX that is totally available
to you in Vue.
Today we're not gonna be discussing
the way that you would work with
it with JSX because it's
kinda like while in Rome,
we're gonna learn the Vue
way of working with stuff.
But that is definitely available to you so
don't feel like If you come from a React
background you have to divorce yourself
from all of the things that you love.
It has slightly better
performance than React and
has no use of polyfills like Polymer.
So it's an isolated,
less opinionated view then Anguler.
We mentioned this before
because it's not an MVC.
It's just the Vue layer only and
if you need more horsepower you kind of
add things that you need, like React does.